# 1.24 

Friendly reminder, it is expected that on September 23, all channels will update the 1.24 version player package, and players will be updated to version 1.24 one after another. Developers are requested to arrange the update rhythm reasonably. 

**2021.09.16: Version number (v1.24 BE1.16.202)** 

<iframe src="https://cc.163.com/act/m/daily/iframeplayer/?id=61415ca248e27490891e9566" height="600" width="800" allow="fullscreen" /> 

- Introduction to major functions 

1. Custom fluid 

- Contains fluid color, texture, range, and flow rate settings 

- Custom barrels can be loaded with custom fluids 

- The effect of liquid spreading fire and the effect obtained by entering the liquid can be set 

For details, see <a href="../../../mcguide/20-Gameplay Development/15-Custom Game Content/2-Custom Blocks/3-Special Blocks/5-Custom Fluids.html" rel="noopenner"> Custom Fluids </a>, <a href="../../../mcguide/20-Gameplay Development/15-Custom Game Content/1-Custom Items/7-Custom Buckets.html" rel="noopenner"> Custom Buckets </a> 
2. Custom Enchantments 

- Supports custom spells and spell levels 
- Custom enchantments can be obtained from enchantment books, enchantment tables, and anvils 
- Custom enchantments can be included on items 

For details, see <a href="../../../mcguide/20-Gameplay Development/15-Custom Game Content/11-Custom Enchantment Document.html" rel="noopenner"> Custom Enchantments </a> 
3. Custom Block Function Extension: 

* Supports block gravity performance, and can customize the falling effects of anvils, gravel, etc. 

- Support setting the block falling performance 
- Support setting the falling speed and damage 
- Can get the events of the block starting to fall, ending to fall, and touching the entity during the falling process 

For details, see <a href="../../../mcguide/20-Gameplay Development/15-Custom Game Content/2-Custom Blocks/3-Special Blocks/6-Custom Gravity Blocks.html" rel="noopenner"> Custom Gravity Blocks </a> 

* Can get the event of the entity falling to the block, and can customize the bounce effect of the slime block. For details, see [OnAfterFallOnBlockServerEvent](../Event/Block.html#onafterfallonblockserverevent), [OnAfterFallOnBlockClientEvent](../Event/Block.html#onafterfallonblockclientevent) 
* Can get the event of the entity moving on the block, and can customize different friction effects such as ice and soul sand. For details, see [OnStandOnBlockServerEvent](../event/block.html#onstandonblockserverevent), [OnStandOnBlockClientEvent](../event/block.html#onstandonblockclientevent) 

4. Custom block entity rendering can achieve more expressive custom blocks. 

- Block entities support adding animations, and support the use of original models made by BlockBench or original game models. 
- Block entities support adding special effects. Through configuration or interface, particle effects and sequence frame effects can be added to custom block entities. 

For details, see <a href="../../../mcguide/20-Gameplay Development/15-Custom Game Content/2-Custom Blocks/4.1-Custom Block Entity Appearance.html" rel="noopenner"> Custom Block Entity Appearance </a> 
5. Customized paging and grouping 

- Supports multiple customized paging to make item classification more flexible. 

- Supports placing items in original groups or customized groups. Customized groups support multiple items to make item classification more regular.


For details, see <a href="../../../mcguide/20-Gameplay Development/15-Custom Game Content/12-Custom Item Grouping.html" rel="noopenner"> Custom Item Grouping </a> and <a href="../../../mcguide/20-Gameplay Development/15-Custom Game Content/13-Custom Item Paging.html" rel="noopenner"> Custom Item Paging </a> 

6. Post-processing effects 

- Vignetting effect. The picture gradually darkens with the distance from the center, achieving visual effects similar to scopes. 

For details, see [vignetting](../Interface/Post-processing/vignetting.md) 



*(The demo download addresses involved in the demonstration video are as follows: [Custom Enchant](https://g79.gdl.netease.com/EnchantDemo.zip), [Other Content](https://g79.gdl.netease.com/1.24demo.zip))* 

- New 

1. Added <a href="../../../mcguide/16-Art/7-Material and Shader/Shader Introduction.html" rel="noopenner">Shader Introduction </a> tutorial 

1. Added [StartCoroutine](../Interface/General/Tools.md#startcoroutine), started the server-side coroutine, implemented the segmented execution of functions, which can be used to alleviate the problem of game lag caused by complex logic calculations<!--by handaoying--> 

1. Added [StopCoroutine](../Interface/General/Tools.md#stopcoroutine), stop the server coroutine<!--by handaoying--> 

1. Added [OpenChatGui](../Interface/Native UI.md#openchatgui), open the original chat bar<!--by hdy--> 

1. Added [StartCoroutine](../Interface/General/Tools.md#startcoroutine), start the client coroutine, implement function segmented execution, which can be used to alleviate the game lag problem caused by complex logic calculation<!--by handaoying--> 

1. Added [StopCoroutine](../Interface/General/Tools.md#stopcoroutine), stop the client coroutine<!--by handaoying--> 

1. Added [GetTypeFamily](../Interface/Entity/Attributes.md#gettypefamily), get the biological behavior package field type_family<!--by hdy--> 

1. Added [AddModEnchantToInvItem](../Interface/Player/Backpack.md#addmodenchanttoinvitem), added an interface for adding custom enchantment information to items in the inventory<!--by liaoyi--> 

1. Added [RemoveEnchantToInvItem](../Interface/Player/Backpack.md#removeenchanttoinvitem), added an interface for removing enchantment information from items in the inventory<!--by liaoyi--> 

1. Added [RemoveModEnchantToInvItem](../Interface/Player/Backpack.md#removemodenchanttoinvitem), added an interface for removing custom enchantment information from items in the inventory<!--by liaoyi--> 

1. Added [GetInvItemModEnchantData](../Interface/Player/Backpack.md#getinvitemmodenchantdata), added to get the custom enchantment information of items in the inventory<!--by liaoyi--> 

1. Added [GetEquItemModEnchant](../Interface/Entity/Backpack.md#getequitemmodenchant), added support for getting the custom enchantment of armor in the biological equipment slot<!--by liaoyi--> 

1. Added [SetItemMaxDurability](../Interface/Item.md#setitemmaxdurability), set the maximum durability of the item<!--by likaiyu--> 

1. Added [GetItemMaxDurability](../Interface/Item.md#getitemmaxdurability), get the maximum durability of the item in the specified slot<!--by likaiyu--> 

1. Added [GetPlayerExhaustionRatioByType](../Interface/Player/Behavior.md#getplayerexhaustionratiobytype), get the hunger consumption multiplier of a player's behavior<!--by hdy--> 

1. Added [SetPlayerExhaustionRatioByType](../Interface/Player/Behavior.md#setplayerexhaustionratiobytype), set the hunger consumption multiplier of a player's behavior<!--by hdy--> 

1. Added [SetPlayerAttackSpeedAmplifier](../Interface/Player/Behavior.md#setplayerattackspeedamplifier), set the player's attack speed multiplier<!--by gzhuabo--> 

1. Added [SetBlockEntityMolangValue](../Interface/Block/BlockEntity.md#setblockentitymolangvalue), set the Molang variable of the custom block entity, used to control the animation transition of the custom entity. <!--by xujiarong-->


1. Added [GetBlockEntityMolangValue](../Interface/Block/BlockEntity.md#getblockentitymolangvalue) to get the value of the Molang variable of the custom block entity. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [SetEnableBlockEntityAnimations](../Interface/Block/BlockEntity.md#setenableblockentityanimations) to enable the animation effect of the custom block entity. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [CreateParticleEffectForBlockEntity](../Interface/Block/BlockEntity.md#createparticleeffectforblockentity) to create particle effects on custom block entities. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [GetParticleEffectIdInBlockEntity](../Interface/Block/BlockEntity.md#getparticleeffectidinblockentity) to get the ID of the particle effect created in the custom block entity. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [RemoveParticleEffectInBlockEntity](../Interface/Block/BlockEntity.md#removeparticleeffectinblockentity) to remove the particle effect created on the custom block entity. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [CreateFrameEffectForBlockEntity](../Interface/Block/BlockEntity.md#createframeeffectforblockentity) to create a sequence frame effect on the custom block entity. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [GetFrameEffectIdInBlockEntity](../Interface/Block/BlockEntity.md#getframeeffectidinblockentity) to get the ID of the sequence frame effect created in the custom block entity. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [RemoveFrameEffectInBlockEntity](../Interface/Block/BlockEntity.md#removeframeeffectinblockentity) to remove the sequence frame effect created on the custom block entity. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [SetBlockEntityParticlePosOffset](../Interface/Block/Rendering.md#setblockentityparticleposoffset), set the offset value of the particle effect position in the custom block entity<!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [SetBlockEntityFramePosOffset](../Interface/Block/Rendering.md#setblockentityframeposoffset), set the offset value of the sequence frame effect position in the custom block entity<!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [SetBlockEntityModelPosOffset](../Interface/Block/Rendering.md#setblockentitymodelposoffset), set the entity model position offset value of the custom block entity<!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [SetBlockEntityModelScale](../Interface/Block/Rendering.md#setblockentitymodelscale) to set the scale value of the entity model size of the custom block entity. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [SetBlockEntityModelRotation](../Interface/Block/Rendering.md#setblockentitymodelrotation) to set the rotation value of the entity model of the custom block entity on each axis. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [GetPos](../Interface/Effect/Sequence Frame.md#getpos) to get the world coordinate position of the sequence frame effect. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [GetRot](../Interface/Effect/Sequence Frame.md#getrot) to get the rotation angle of the sequence frame effect. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [GetScale](../Interface/Effect/Sequence Frame.md#getscale) to get the scale value of the sequence frame effect. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [SetParticleSize](../Interface/Effect/Particle.md#setparticlesize) to set the minimum and maximum particle size in the particle effect. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [GetParticleMaxSize](../Interface/Effect/Particle.md#getparticlemaxsize) to get the maximum particle size in the particle effect. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [GetParticleMinSize](../Interface/Effect/Particle.md#getparticleminsize) to get the minimum particle size in the particle effect. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [SetParticleVolumeSize](../Interface/Effect/Particle.md#setparticlevolumesize) to set the volume size scaling of the particle emitter. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [GetParticleVolumeSize](../Interface/Effect/Particle.md#getparticlevolumesize) to get the volume size scaling value of the particle emitter. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [SetParticleMaxNum](../Interface/Effect/Particle.md#setparticlemaxnum) to set the maximum number of particles contained in the particle emitter. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [GetParticleMaxNum](../Interface/Effect/Particle.md#getparticlemaxnum) to get the maximum number of particles contained in the particle emitter. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [SetParticleEmissionRate](../Interface/Effects/Particles.md#setparticleemissionrate) to set the frequency of particle emitter emitting particles per frame. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [GetParticleEmissionRate](../Interface/Effects/Particles.md#getparticleemissionrate) to get the frequency of particle emitter emitting particles per frame. <!--by xujiarong-->


1. Added [GetPos](../Interface/Effects/Particle.md#getpos) to get the world coordinate position of the particle emitter. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [GetRot](../Interface/Effects/Particle.md#getrot) to get the rotation angle of the particle emitter. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [SetRotUseZXY](../Interface/Effects/Particles.md#setrotusezxy), set the rotation of the particle emitter, the rotation order is around the z, x, y axis<!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [Swing](../Interface/Player/Attributes.md#swing), local players play the original attack action<!--by gzhuabo--> 

1. Added [SetEnableVignette](../Interface/Post-Processing/Vignette.md#setenablevignette), whether to enable the vignetting effect<!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [CheckVignetteEnabled](../Interface/Post-Processing/Vignette.md#checkvignetteenabled), check whether the vignetting effect is enabled<!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [SetVignetteRGB](../Interface/Post-processing/Vignette.md#setvignettergb), set the vignetting color of the vignetting effect<!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [SetVignetteCenter](../Interface/Post-processing/Vignette.md#setvignettecenter), set the vignetting center position of the vignetting effect<!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [SetVignetteRadius](../Interface/Post-processing/Vignette.md#setvignetteradius), set the vignetting radius of the vignetting effect<!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [SetVignetteSmoothness](../Interface/Post-processing/Vignette.md#setvignettesmoothness), set the vignetting blur coefficient of the vignetting effect<!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Added [HeavyBlockStartFallingServerEvent](../event/block.md#heavyblockstartfallingserverevent), added the event triggered after the gravity block becomes a falling block entity<!--by likaiyu--> 

1. Added [FallingBlockReturnHeavyBlockServerEvent](../event/block.md#fallingblockreturnheavyblockserverevent), added the event triggered when the falling block entity changes back to a normal gravity block<!--by likaiyu--> 

1. Added [FallingBlockBreakServerEvent](../event/block.md#fallingblockbreakserverevent), added the event triggered when the falling block entity is destroyed<!--by likaiyu--> 

1. Added [FallingBlockCauseDamageBeforeServerEvent](../event/block.md#fallingblockcausedamagebeforeserverevent), added the event of falling blocks calculating the damage of entities, and some properties can be modified<!--by likaiyu--> 

1. Added [OnBeforeFallOnBlockServerEvent](../event/block.md#onbeforefallonblockserverevent), added the event triggered by the server when the entity just landed on the block, mainly used for damage calculation<!--by likaiyu--> 

1. Added [OnAfterFallOnBlockServerEvent](../event/block.md#onafterfallonblockserverevent), added the event triggered by the server when the entity just landed on the block, mainly used for force calculation<!--by likaiyu--> 

1. Added [OnStandOnBlockServerEvent](../event/block.md#onstandonblockserverevent), added an event that is continuously triggered by the server when an entity stands on a block<!--by likaiyu--> 

1. Added [PlayerTrySleepServerEvent](../event/player.md#playertrysleepserverevent), the player tries to sleep on a bed. <!--by hdy--> 

1. Added [PlayerSleepServerEvent](../event/player.md#playersleepserverevent), the player successfully sleeps on a bed. <!--by hdy--> 

1. Added [PlayerStopSleepServerEvent](../event/player.md#playerstopsleepserverevent), when the player stops sleeping<!--by hdy--> 

1. Added [OnItemPutInEnchantingModelServerEvent](../event/item.md#onitemputinenchantingmodelserverevent), when the player puts an enchantable item on the enchanting table, you can modify the enchanting table options at this time<!--by liaoyi--> 

1. Added [GrindStoneRemovedEnchantClientEvent](../event/item.md#grindstoneremovedenchantclientevent), added the event of the player clicking the grinding wheel to synthesize the item<!--by liaoyi--> 

1. Added [FallingBlockCauseDamageBeforeClientEvent](../event/block.md#fallingblockcausedamagebeforeclientevent), added the event of falling blocks calculating the damage of hitting entities, and some properties can be modified<!--by likaiyu--> 

1. Added [OnAfterFallOnBlockClientEvent](../event/block.md#onafterfallonblockclientevent), added the event triggered by the client when the entity just landed on the block, mainly used for force calculation<!--by likaiyu--> 

1. Added [OnStandOnBlockClientEvent](../event/block.md#onstandonblockclientevent), added the event continuously triggered by the client when the entity stands on the block<!--by likaiyu-->


1. Added [EnchantSlotType](../EnchantSlotType.md), enchantment slot enumeration value<!--by liaoyi--> 

1. Added [PlayerExhauseRatioType](../EnchantValue/PlayerExhauseRatioType.md), hunger consumption multiplier type<!--by hdy--> 

- Adjustment 

1. Adjusted [SetMobKnockback](../Interface/Entity/Behavior.md#setmobknockback), added notes: When using this interface in the damageEvent event, the knock parameter of the damageEvent event callback needs to be set to False<!--by guanmingyu--> 

1. Adjust [SetMotion](../Interface/Entity/Behavior.md#setmotion), add note: when using this interface in the damageEvent event, set the knock parameter of the damageEvent event callback to False<!--by guanmingyu--> 

1. Adjust [SetMotion](../Interface/Entity/Behavior.md#setmotion), optimize document description<!--by likaiyu--> 

1. Adjust [DepartCamera](../Interface/Player/Camera.md#departcamera), when riding a boat, the player's lens can rotate 360 degrees when it rotates horizontally after detaching the camera. <!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Adjust [SetEntityOpacity](../Interface/Model.md#setentityopacity), correct the scope of the interface function to: only effective for skeleton models<!--by xujiarong--> 

1. Adjust [EntityTickServerEvent](../Event/Entity.md#entitytickserverevent), add entity identifier parameter<!--by hdy--> 

1. Adjust [ChunkLoadedServerEvent](../Event/World.md#chunkloadedserverevent), this event no longer needs to add a chunk whitelist<!--by czh--> 

1. Adjust [AnvilCreateResultItemAfterClientEvent](../Event/Item.md#anvilcreateresultitemafterclientevent), the return value adds the item information dictionary of the first two items synthesized<!--by liaoyi--> 

1. Adjust [ChunkLoadedClientEvent](../event/world.md#chunkloadedclientevent), this event no longer needs to add chunk whitelist<!--by czh--> 

1. Adjust [ChunkAcquireDiscardedClientEvent](../event/world.md#chunkacquirediscardedclientevent), this event no longer needs to add chunk whitelist<!--by czh--> 

- Fix 

1. Fix [GetBiomeName](../interface/world/map.md#getbiomename), fix the problem that when the mod has a custom nether, the original nether unloaded chunks are converted into custom nether biomes. <!--by likaiyu--> 

1. Fixed [SetEntityScale](../Interface/Model.md#setentityscale), fixed the problem that the size would be reset in some cases<!--by czh--> 

1. Fixed [ActorAcquiredItemClientEvent](../Event/Item.md#actoracquireditemclientevent), fixed the problem that it would be triggered twice when trading with villagers<!--by czh--> 

- Deprecated (will not be available in the future) 

1. Deprecated AddChunkPosWhiteList, chunk loading and unloading events no longer require whitelists 

1. Deprecated AddChunkPosWhiteList, chunk loading and unloading events no longer require whitelists 

1. Deprecated SetRot, the rotation value set by this interface rotates according to the x, y, z axes, which is incompatible with other interfaces, so it will be gradually deprecated. Please use SetRotUseZXY interface 

1. Deprecate SetUiItem, and recommend using UI object-oriented ItemRendererUIControl.SetUiItem interface 

